Although most of your work is technical,
you must set aside time to partner with IT Finance to baseline,
project, monitor, and manage your costs.
Consistently monitoring your AWS account for costs is imperative.
Your cost baselines need to be defined and adhered to by every member of the Cloud team.
Remember, that runaway costs can be
an unexpected side effect of not defining baselines and expectations,
and often lead to disappointment,
disillusionment, and the abandonment of Cloud technology projects.
Establishing a tagging strategy prior to initiating
your Cloud projects is so important when establishing a cost monitoring protocol,
because it simplifies the process of associating AWS costs with their business use.
This allows your finance team to ensure
budgetary resources are being allocated according to their stated purpose.
Using Cost Explorer and Trusted Adviser,
which is free for some support accounts,
to uncover opportunities to reduce and refine your service costs,
is also an important task that should be assigned to
a Cloud resource on your team and executed regularly,
with the results being shared and tracked over time,
and documented for response and resolution.
Despite our best efforts,
and the vigilance of our internal security teams,
and AWS security monitoring,
Cloud breaches have been known to occur.
In most cases, human error leaves the door open for malice use of an AWS account.
If this rare event was ever to occur,
the damage can often be mitigated by a fast response to a billing alert,
letting you know that an out of bounds cost has occurred.
AWS wants you to succeed on their platform.
So they offer assistance in the following ways.
AWS Cost Explorer, which is a tool that
enables you to view and analyze your costs and usage,
and in a graph or report,
Cost Explorer is very useful in forecasting costs and predicting word services,
like Reserved Instances, may offer cost savings.
AWS CodeGuru, which is a fully managed service that helps you proactively
improve code quality and application performance with intelligent recommendations.
It reviews your code and finds code issues
during code reviews before they reach production,
including needlessly costly lines of code,
race conditions, memory leaks, and runaway logging.
AWS Solutions architects are professional AWS certified engineers,
who are deployed by AWS to assist
customers in solving the most challenging engineering problems.
Costs for this assistants vary based on your support agreement,
and of course, the relative value of your account.
AWS also offers a count credits for certain customers,
like startups, nonprofits, and academic institutions.
It also never hurts to ask AWS for credits,
no matter who you are.
Competition among Cloud providers is heating up,
and AWS has an interest in your success as a customer,
and may provide credits that allow you to try a new service,
or onboard a new application.